title: Electroplating
date: 2009-05-12 

Technology suitable for small quantity production

The process used in electroplating is called electrodeposition. The item to be coated is placed into a container containing a solution of one or more metal salts. The item is connected to an electrical circuit, forming the anode or the cathode of the circuit. When an electrical current is passed through the circuit, metal ions in the solution are attracted to the item. The result is an evenly-coated layer of metal around the item. This process is analogous to a galvanic cell acting in reverse.

The plating is most commonly a single metallic element, not an alloy. However, some alloys can be electrodeposited, notably brass. Electroplating is used in many industries for functional and/or decorative purposes. Some well known examples are chrome-plating of steel parts on automobiles. Steel bumper becomes more attractive and corrosion-resistant when they have been electroplated with nickel and then chromium. Steel camshafts resists wear much better when they have been electroplated with chromium. Plain steel or aluminum parts in light fixtures become beautiful when they are electroplated with nickel and then decorative chromium or brass. Steel bolts last much longer because they are sold with a coating of zinc that has been applied by electroplating. Electroplating can be used to silver plate copper or brass electrical connectors, since silver tarnishes much slower and has a higher conductivity than those metals. The benefit of the silver is lower surface electrical resistance resulting in a more efficient electrical connection. Silver plating is also popular for RF connectors because radio frequency current flows primarily on the surface of its conductor; the connector will thus have the strength of brass and the conductivity of silver.