title: New Journal! - Trans. ASME Journal of Micro- and Nano-Manufacturing (JMNM)
date: 2012-01-04 

The launch of a new archival  journal is announced – [Trans. ASME Journal of Micro- and Nano-Manufacturing (JMNM)](http://journaltool.asme.org/Content/JournalDescriptions.cfm?journalId=26&Journal=MNM) on January 1, 2012.
<!--break-->
The entire Editorial Board would like to welcome your submissions to this specialized journal focusing on publishing the original theoretical and applied research in the areas of micro- and nano-manufacturing that are related to process innovation, accuracy and precision, throughput enhancement, compact equipment development, environmental and life-cycle analysis and predictive modeling of manufacturing processes with feature sizes at the micro- and nano-scales.   

Areas of interest include, but are not limited to: unit micro- and nano-manufacturing processes; hybrid manufacturing processes combining bottom-up and top-down processes; hybrid manufacturing processes utilizing various energy sources (optical, mechanical, electrical, solar, etc.) to achieve multi-scale features and resolution; high-throughput micro- and nano-manufacturing processes; equipment development; predictive modeling and simulation of materials and/or systems enabling point-of-need or scaled-up micro- and nano-manufacturing; metrology at the micro- and nano-scales over large areas; sensors and sensor integration; design algorithms for multi-scale manufacturing; life cycle analysis; logistics and material handling related to micro- and nano-manufacturing.   

Papers addressing special needs in emerging areas, such as biomedical devices, drug manufacturing, water and energy, are also encouraged. The typical paper length of a research paper is about 9000 words including figures and tables, while a technical brief is about 2500 words.  
  
Detailed information and submission guidelines can be found on [ASME webpages](http://journaltool.asme.org/Help/AuthorHelp/WebHelp/JournalsHelp.htm#Guidelines/Getting_Started.htm). If you have any questions, please feel free to contact the Technical Editor, [Prof. Jian Cao of Northwestern University](mailto:jcao@northwestern.edu).

We are looking forward to your support of the new Journal  and your submissions.  

Sincerely yours,  
  
**Jian Cao, Technical Editor JMNM,**  

and the **Editorial Board Members**  
 
Bradley Nelson of ETH-Zϋrich,  
Ulf Engel of University of Erlangen,  
Nicholas Fang of  M.I.T.,  
Liwei Lin of  University of California, Berkeley,  
Don Lucca of  Oklahoma State University,  
Rhett Mayor of Georgia Institute of Technology Tech,  
Hitoshi Ohmori of RIKEN  
Ashutosh Sharma of Indian Institute of Technology, Kanpur.