## IEEE IROS 2009

This conference, [IEE IROS 2009,](http://www.iros09.mtu.edu/index.php/IROS_2009:_The_2009_IEEE/RSJ_International_Conference_on_Intelligent_RObots_and_Systems) will feature an invited session on "Advanced Control Techniques
in Micro/Nano Manipulation".
<!--break-->
> The 2009 IEEE/RSJ International Conference on Intelligent Robots and Systems (IROS) will be held at the Hyatt Regency St. Louis Riverfront at St. Louis, Missouri, USA, from October 11 to 15, 2009. St. Louis is known as the "Gateway City", as it is seen as the Eastern/Western US dividing mark. It’s also called "Gateway to the West" on behalf of the many people who migrated west through St. Louis via the Missouri River. Following the exploration spirit of St. Louis, the conference theme is “Exploring New Horizons in Intelligent Robots and Systems,” reflecting the growing spectrum and recent developments in intelligent robots and systems.
> 
> Papers are solicited in all related areas in robotics and intelligent systems. All papers must be in PDF format prepared strictly following the IEEE PDF Requirements for Creating PDF Documents for Xplore. The standard number of pages is 6 and the page limit is 8 with extra payment for pages beyond 6. Detailed instructions are available on the conference website. We also solicit organized/special sessions on emerging areas and innovative applications of new technologies. Papers in organized/special sessions must be submitted through the regular submission process, while the proposals must be submitted to the co-chairs. Proposals for tutorials and workshops are welcome, and are encouraged to address the conference theme, to discuss new technologies in robots and intelligent systems, and to attract industrial participations. Proposals must be submitted directly to one of the co-chairs of workshop/tutorials.  
> 
> from the [conference website](http://www.iros09.mtu.edu/index.php/IROS_2009:_The_2009_IEEE/RSJ_International_Conference_on_Intelligent_RObots_and_Systems)