# IPAS 2010

**The Fifth International Precision Assembly Seminar**   will be held next year in Chamonix, France from 14-17 February 2010.
<!--break-->
The seminar provides an excellent forum for industrial and research organizations to debate the current challenges and developments in manufacturing across Europe and within the USA and Japan. The official language of the Seminar is English.  

**Seminar Topics**  
Miniaturisation and integration of functions (mechanical, sensing, control, computing) within confined spaces is becoming increasingly important in modern mechatronic systems. Such systems consist of a mechanical structure set in motion by appropriate actuators. Examples are mobile phones, wearable sound and video systems, digital organisers,
space application robot endoscopes, etc. These novel systems are currently developed to solve the new societal paradigm which requests higher product quality with reduced maintenance, reduction of time delivery, greater modularity and greater customisation. They rely more and more on emerging technologies or on new concepts. Scale laws make
some physical principles useless for microsystems, whereas other principles, whilst uninteresting for macrosystems, become extremely interesting for miniaturised systems. Furthermore, the complexities of the microdomain bring a greater need for collaboration of experts due to the fragmentation of research and the distribution of risk. The aim of
the seminar is to discuss the rapidly evolving field of micro-assembly, including the development of microfactories and microsystem fabrication.


**Call for Papers**  
The Second Call for Papers for the [Fifth International Precision Assembly Seminar 2010](http://www.ipas2010.org/) is now available to download below. Please also find attached registration form. 


**Key dates**

**The call for papers deadline has been extended to 20th July 2009.**  

Final Paper Deadline: 28 September 2009

Registration Deadline: 1st December 2009