---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## IWMF 2012

The 8th International Workshop on Microfactories (IWMF 2012), is inviting you to contribute to the conference. The IWMF 2012 will be held in Finland on 18-20 June, 2012.
<!--break-->
**Important dates:**  
Abstract Submission: 31 October 2011   
Notification of Abstract Acceptance: 18 November 2011   
Full Paper Submission: 10 February 2012  
 
Micro and desktop factories are small-size production systems suitable for fabrication and manufacturing of micro and small sized parts and products. Micro and desktop factories decrease the need of factory floor space, and reduce energy consumption and improve material and resource utilization thus strongly supporting the new sustainable manufacturing paradigm.  
 
The Workshop aims to provide a forum for researchers and practitioners working on the diverse issues of micro and desktop factories, their building blocks, as well as technologies and processes applicable for micro and desktop factories. Authors are invited to submit papers for all aspects of theories, methodologies, applications, and case studies relating to micro and desktop factories.  
 
**The submission deadline for abstracts is October 31th, 2011.**  
  
Topics of interest include but are not limited to:
* Micro and Desktop Factory Concepts and Systems  
* Micro and Desktop Factory Components, Modules, Devices and Cells  
* System Aspects of Microfactories  
* Architectures for Micro and Desktop Factories  
* Standardization  
* Plug-and-Produce Devices and System Solutions  
* Advances in Controllers, Actuators and Sensors Applicable for Micro and Desktop Factories  
* Ultra High Precision Fabrication  
* Micro-manufacturing and -fabrication Technologies and Processes  
* Non-traditional and Alternate Processes  
* Integration and Logistics  
* High Precision Production of 3D Micro-parts  
* Microfactories for Mechatronic, Medical and Biotechnological Applications  
* Fabrication under Special Conditions   
* Micro-assembly and Micro-handling   
* Micro and Desktop Compatible Robotics  
* Point-of-need and On-site Manufacturing  
* Mobile Factory  
* Desktop 3D Printing  
* Personal Factory and Fab @ Home  
* Design and Engineering for Micro and Desktop Factories  
* Technological, Economical, Environmental and/or Human Aspects  
* Innovations, Visions for the Future  

Please submit an abstract of up to 1000 words or an electronic copy of your full paper representing original results in the field of micro and desktop factories.
 
Papers must be submitted through the symposium website and will be rigorously peer-reviewed and evaluated by at least two referees for technical content. 
 
All submissions should include: title of paper, suggested topic(s) (from topic list), name(s) of authors, affiliation, and full postal address, telephone, fax and e-mail address. Please indicate clearly the purpose of the paper, references to related works and literature, research method and major results. 
 
In full papers the standard number of pages is 6 and the maximum page limit is 8 pages. At least one of the authors must register for the workshop in order for the paper to be included in the IWMF 2012 Proceedings. Outstanding selected papers will be published in international journals. 
 
Deadlines for author notifications and camera ready can be found at the conference web page, where possible extensions or new deadlines will also be announced.
 
Keynote speakers will be announced shortly.
 
Please consider contributing, and encourage your colleagues and team members to submit an abstract (or paper) to the IWMF 2012 conference.
 
In conjunction with the 8th IWMF 2012 an Industry Forum on Innovation and Entrepreneurship in Micro and Desktop Factories will be organized.
 
You can find more information about the events in the attached Call for Papers and in the [conference website](http://www.tut.fi/iwmf2012/).  
  
Should you have any questions regarding the organization of the conference, topics in call for papers or any other questions, please do not hesitate to contact the IWMF 2012 organizing team [iwmf2012@tut.fi](mailto:iwmf2012@tut.fi) or directly the General Chair or Organizing Chair.