---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## Workshop on simulation of Powder Injection Moulding (PIM) - progress and expectation of industry

In order to reach the market in more complex parts, PIM industry requires the use of efficient simulation tools in order to set up the process of injection, debinding and sintering.
<!--break-->
The development of bi-components PIM parts requires more urgently an accurate simulation. Indeed, due to the difference of shrinkage between both materials, macroscopic distortion and also internal stresses can easily appear and lead to
unacceptable parts for industrialisation.

It is one of the objectives of the project FP6 CarCIM(1) to evaluate the potential of the existing tools to assist the development of bi-components injection-moulding parts. In the project MatLaw better material models and the quality check of feedstocks during injection moulding are developed. During this workshop, it is expected to present an up-to-date status on the simulation of the different stages of the process of fabrication of PIM parts. These steps include the injection, the debinding, the sintering and also the process optimisation.

The workshop is not only addressed to PIM specialists but more on industries which would like to implement the simulation in-house for the improvement of their process of fabrication of PIM parts.

Programme
8h30 – 9h00 Registration

9h00 - 9h10 Welcome, Luc Federzoni, CEA

9h10 - 9h30 Introduction of CarCIM and MatLaw, T. Moritz, T. Hartwig, IKTS IFAM

9h30 - 10h00 Need of simulation by MIM industry, JC Bihr, Alliance

10h00- 10h30 Modelling and simulation of the filling phase of the PIM process:issues and challenges, JF Hetu, F. Ilinca, CNRC

10h30 - 11h00 Modelling and Simulation of particle concentrations in powder injection moulding, A. Latz, D. Niedziela, K. Steiner, ITWM

11h00 - 11h30 Kinetic model for debinding of CIM parts, A. Mannschatz, T. Moritz, I. Heeren, IKTS, Bosch

11h30 - 12h00 Simulation of sintering stage, T. Barriere, ENSMM

12h00 – 12h30 Simulation and optimisation of PIM process, J.C Gelin, ENSMM

Lunch

13h30 - 14h00 Simulation of 2-component CIM process chain (injection moulding + sintering), M. Thornagel, R. Hubmann, T. Kraft, Fotec, Sigma, IWM

14h00 - 14h30 Simulation of sintering as part of the CIM process chain, T.Kraft, I. Schmidt, H.Riedel, IWM

14h30 - 15h00 Comparison of simulation with practical results, R. Hubmann, T. Kraft, H. Loibl, A. Mannschatz, T. Moritz, C. Kukla, Fotec, IWM, IKTS

15h00 - 15h30 Development of titanium dental implant by MIM:Experiments and simulation, E. Baril, Y. Thomas, F. Ilinca, J.F. Hetu, CNRC
New models for the rheology of feedstocks, W. Friesenbichler, I. Duretek, C. Kukla, MUL
Special effects in PIM, T. Hartwig, IFAM

1530 - no limit, Round Table Discussion.

To participate in this workshop costs €90, students €70, CarCIM and presenters - free.

For more information contact <a href="mailto:dominique.baguet@cea.fr"><strong>Dominique Baguet</strong></a>