---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## License Agreement

---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## Deadlines

<table class="info" style="width:100%;">
<tr><th>event</th><th>date</th></tr>
<tr ><td>Submission of full paper</td><td>21st April 2011</td></tr>  
<tr class="current"><td>Submission of revised paper</td><td>July 2011</td></tr>
<tr><td>Submission of final paper</td><td>16th September 2011</td></tr> 
</table>
<!--break-->
---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## License agreement


To publish your paper in the proceedings Cardiff University requests a formal written License agreement from the copyright owners for each article published. To avoid any delay in the publication of your article, please read the terms of the agreement, sign and return the completed form to us at the address below by the specified deadline.

The agreement establishes that the Licensor owns the copyright in the Article and grants Cardiff University a non-exclusive, royalty-free license in the Article to use the article for the Permitted Purpose, together with the right to sub-license as detailed below. 

The Permitted Purpose shall mean Cardiff University’s right to publish the Article on any website controlled by Cardiff University, and for paper or electronic copies to be downloaded by third parties upon a free basis. Cardiff University shall also have the right to sub-license the Articles to third parties so that the Article may be placed upon websites controlled by such third parties and for paper or electronic copies to be downloaded by other third parties upon a free basis.

The licensor warrants that:  

 * the Licensor owns the copyright in the work created by the  authors.  
 * the Article submitted is original and has been written by the stated authors.  
 * the Article contains no libellous or other unlawful statements and does not contain any materials that violate any personal or proprietary rights of any other person or entity. 
 * the Licensor has obtained written permission from copyright owners for any excerpts from copyrighted works that are included and have credited the sources in  the Article or  the supplemental tables, illustrations or other information submitted. 

---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## Submission


Please download the 4M2011 License Agreement by clicking on the icon below. When you have completed it, please fax or post it, by the specified deadline, to the addresses below. We would appreciate it if you also send us an email notification of sending the form.

Mr Chris Matthews  
Manufacturing Engineering Centre (MEC)   
Cardiff University    
Queen's Buildings  
The Parade   
Cardiff, CF24 3AA   
UK   

email: [Chris Matthews](mailto:Matthewscw@Cardiff.ac.uk)   
Telephone: +44(029)2087 0016   
Facsimile: +44(029)2087 4880