---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## Michaeli's successor at IKV named

**Hopmann to become new head of the Institute of Plastics Processing (IKV)**  
  
Aachen, October 2010. University Professor Dr.-Ing. Christian Hopmann (42) will succeed University Professor Dr.-Ing. Dr.-Ing. E.h. Walter Michaeli as head of the Institute, Director of the Association of Sponsors of IKV, and holder of the Chair of Plastics Processing at RWTH Aachen University. Michaeli will hand over these functions after many highly successful years when he reaches retirement age in summer 2011.
<!--break-->
Hopmann studied Mechanical Engineering with a particular focus on Plastics Processing at RWTH Aachen University. He received his doctorate in 2000 with a study on Ceramic Injection Moulding, supervised by his predecessor Professor Michaeli. He was initially a research fellow at the Institute of Plastics Processing (IKV), and then head of its department of Part Design/Materials Technology. From 2001 to 2004, Hopmann was Chief Engineer and, in this capacity, Deputy Director of IKV, which will enable him to contribute valuable experience to his future activities.  

In 2005 Hopmann started his industrial career at RKW AG Rheinische Kunststoffwerke (today: RKW SE), Europe’s leading manufacturer of high quality polyethylene and polypropylene films, nonwovens and nets, initially as head of Quality Management at RKW’s
site in Petersaurach in southern Germany. From 2006 to the end of 2009, he was head of Extrusion and thus responsible for the production of polyolefin films for hygiene, consumer packaging and industrial applications. During this period he improved his management skills by attending the Program for Executive Development at the International Institute for Management Development IMD, Lausanne, Switzerland. Since 1 January 2010, he has been Managing Director of RKW Sweden AB in Helsingborg, Sweden.  

"I am looking forward very much to my new assignment at IKV. The special constellation at the Institute, which is outstandingly networked not only in interdisciplinary research inside and outside RWTH but also in industrial joint research, is the basis for excellent academic teaching. Caring for and expanding this is a major challenge and an honour which I am very pleased to accept. I am convinced that my previous experience, both at IKV and in industry, constitute an outstanding basis for performing this function. I am particularly looking forward to cooperating with the people I will meet. Together, we will ensure that IKV continues its positive development", said Hopmann.  
  
Alongside Professor Michaeli, all the staff at IKV are looking forward very much to working with Professor Hopmann.