---
layout: sidebar_page
---

## Award for best PhD of 2008

On October 31st - at the PhD graduation ceremony at DTU - our colleague Guido Tosello was awarded a prize for the "Best DTU PhD Project 2008" among all the graduates of the university for the year 2008. Our hearty congratulations go to Guido for this achievement.
<!--break-->
<em>"The article below is reproduced from DTU's own magazine"</em>  
  
On 31 October 2008, Guido Tosello was delighted and honored to receive the award for his PhD project on precision moulding. Some of the smallest components
of a hearing aid or the ultra-thin plastic tubes
used for e.g. drawing blood are precision moulded.
These micro components are less than one milimeter in size, and for three years their production was at the heart of Italian researcher Guido Tosello's PhD project under DTU Mechanical Engineering.  
 
Guido Tosello carried out the project, ,,Precision Moulding of Polymer Micro Components", to such a high standard of academic excellence that his research was chosen as PhD Project of the Year on Friday, 31st October.

The thesis was chosen by Kristian Stubkjer, former Research Dean, who was charged with finding the ultimate winner. ,,We had a strong field of applicants this year. There were many good PhDs. Guido Tosello was chosen because he has demonstrated
excellence in research and also extremely high productivity. He documented his findings in 27 international publications and was cited as principal author in about half of these," said Kristian Stubkjer.  

The examiners from Guido Tosello's PhD defense emphasize his project as an outstanding example of a genuine interdisciplinary approach to research. The project comprises studies of construction, materials technology, process and production technology as well as geometrical metrology and process modelling.
Guido Tosello's project also has an international dimension in that he collaborated with researchers abroad and participated in eight international conferences and stayed at the University of Freiburg for three months in total. The 32-year-old engineer graduated from the University of Padua in Italy, but completed his Master's degree at DTU in 2002. Guido Tosello will now be continuing his career at DTU Mechanical Engineering where he has just acquired a permanent position as assistant professor.  

With the award the winner also gets a work of art of his own choice.