## Conference Registration 4M2016

## Conference Registration Now Open


**REGISTER NOW** [HERE>>](http://shop.bham.ac.uk/browse/extra_info.asp?compid=1&modid=2&deptid=31&catid=90&prodid=1206)

In order for a paper to be included in the conference programme and appear in the proceedings at least one author *must* register for the conference **before the 1st of August 2016.** The Authors Final Registration deadline is fixed in relation to the production cycle of the proceedings and cannot be changed.

**Invitation letter for visa**   If you require an invitation letter to obtain visa, please send your request to Contact: <a href="mailto:a.batal@bham.ac.uk">Afif Batal</strong></a>
 
At least one of the following criteria must be met to obtain an invitation letter:

- be an author of an accepted paper;

- have paid the registration fee.



**IMPORTANT:** Current 4M and I2M2 Members can register at a special rate, details below. For a list of current members, click [here>>](/members). Students are also eligible for the discount but must provide evidence.  If you are not a member or a student then you are not eligible for the 4M/I2M2 discounts.
 
Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount. 



................................................................................................




## Conference Fees

**Before 15th of July 2016**

Early Bird for 4M members & Students: **£370**

Early Bird for I2M2 members: **£478**

Early Bird for non-members: **£543**




**After 15th of July 2016**


Late payers for 4M members & students: **£413**

Late payers for I2M2 members: **£522**

Late payers for non-members: **£587**

Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount.
Check the following link for information on 4M membership. [Joining 4M](/4m-association/join4m.md)


The conference fees (in GBP) include printed proceedings, lunches, refreshments, and conference dinner.

................................................................................................


## One Day Conference Fee

One day conference fee: **£217**


##Gala Dinner for accompanying people</h2>(13th September)
Ticket for social event: **£120**