title: ERC Advanced Investigator Grants
date: 2009-11-17 
### UK Information and Proposal Writing Events

In its capacity as UK National Contact Point (NCP) for the European Research Council (ERC), the [UK Research Office](http://www.ukro.ac.uk/), in partnership with institutions from across the UK, will hold a series of information events. These are designed for researchers who are based in or moving to the UK and are interested in applying for the ERC Advanced Investigator Grants and will be held at:

*	University of Edinburgh, Tuesday 24th November 2009 
*	University of Leeds, Wednesday 25th November 2009 
*	University College London, Friday 27th November 2009 
*	Cardiff University, Monday 30th November 2009
	 

#Aim of each session#  

The aim of each session is to provide participants with an overview of the ERC in the Seventh Framework Programme (FP7), focusing on the Advanced Grants scheme. The Advanced Grants call opened on 29 October 2009, with deadlines in Spring 2010. Participants should gain a deeper understanding of the proposal format and the key issues they are required to address in planning, writing and costing an Advanced Grant proposal. Attendance will be free of charge, thanks to the support from the hosting organisations.


#Who should attend?#  

The sessions will be of particular interest to UK-based researchers planning to submit a proposal for the ERC Advanced Grants. Places will be allocated on a first-come, first-served basis.


#Programme outline#  

Two identical sessions will be held at each venue, one in the morning and one in the afternoon. Please note it is only necessary to attend one session. Both sessions will provide an overview of the ERC and will focus on the application process for the ERC Advanced Grants. There will be opportunities to ask questions during each session.

#Registration and further information#  

More information and registration can be obtained via the [UKRO events webpage.](http://www.ukro.ac.uk/erc/events_ukro/index.htm)  

#Event Flyer  #  


Download by clicking below: