title: Research Associate in Laser Processing
date: 2021-03-31

The Manufacturing Engineering Centre (MEC) at the School of Engineering, Cardiff University is looking to recruit a Research Associate (RA) in the area of laser processing.
<!--break-->
**THIS POST IS NO LONGER AVAILABLE**

The responsibilities associated with the post are  focused on process development, implementation and utilisation of a wide range of laser machining (milling) systems with microsecond, nanosecond and picosecond laser sources. In the wider context, the job will involve designing and implementing process chains that combine the capabilities of laser ablation technology with other micro and nano structuring methods and thus to address specific applications' requirements.  
  
In addition, the succesful candidate will be required to:   
  

* manage and carry out short term contract research and manufacture projects;  
* liaise regularly with partner organisations and users of the MEC laser processing facilities;  
* report R&D result in journal and conference papers;  
* to look for new research projects/activities and collaborative ventures with potential industry and research partners;  
* be the first point of contact for internal and external users of the MEC laser processing services.  

Candidates for the post should have a degree in Mechanical Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Physics or Electronics Engineering.  
 
This is a Grade 6 post (£30-35K) for an initial period of 2 years and it is funded by the FP7 [EUMINAfab Infrastructure project](http://euminafab.cf.ac.uk/).  

The position is available immediately. Interested persons can, in the first instance, contact either [Prof. S. Dimov](mailto:dimov@cf.ac.uk) or [Petko Petkov](mailto:petkovpv@cf.ac.uk) for an informal discussion or to express an interest.