title: Career Opportunity at International Rectifier
date: 2021-03-31

<!--break-->
## COMPANY PROFILE


International Rectifier manufactures power management technologies, from integrated circuits to integrated subsystems. These drive tremendous gains in energy savings and performance to benefit all of us. The world’s leading makers of computers, appliances, automobiles, aircraft, satellites and more look to us to enable their product development roadmaps. Our Newport, South Wales, facility focuses on the development and manufacture of analog and mixed signal markets, using CMOS, TIGBT and Power MOSFET processes.  
  
Newport operates two cleanroom facilities supporting production of sixinch and eight-inch wafers. The modern facility boasts a wide range of amenities from a glass rotunda style restaurant overlooking landscaped gardens and lakes, to a state-of-the-art multigym.   
  
IR is a dynamic organisation where people are empowered and valued and their achievements recognised and rewarded. If you are looking for the excitement that comes from working for the technology leaders in power management, and the stability that comes from a company that has operated globally for over 60 years, consider a career with International Rectifier based at IR Newport. With ongoing investment and expansion to our Newport facility, we are currently looking for exceptionally talented  graduates.  
  
## GRADUATE PROGRAMME


We are looking for outstanding candidates who have the drive to learn, adapt, and solve difficult yet practical challenges. 
As an IR Graduate Engineer you will be able to work on real projects, carefully chosen to suit your development needs. All projects will allow you to expand your knowledge, stretch your talent and discover skills you never knew you had.
Structured around a rigorous training curriculum and strong individual mentoring relationships, our graduate programme offers you the opportunity to take control of your career while benefiting from our years of experience in developing some of the UK’s leading Engineers.  
  
## Degree Required in either;

• Physics  
• Chemistry  
• Materials Science  
• Metallurgy  
• Electrical Engineering or  
• Electronic Engineering
  
## Key Skills Required


• Strong communication and interpersonal skills  
• Good organisational skills  
• Problem solving ability  
• Analytical skills  
• Ability to work as part of a team  
• Ability to work under pressure  

## Key Benefits

Competitive Salary 
Career and Training Opportunities  
Quarterly Incentive Scheme  
Pension Scheme  
Life Assurance  
Employee Discount Scheme  
Employee Assistant Programme  
Free Car parking  
On-site Gym Facilities  
Subsidised Restaurant  
Sports and Social Club  
  
If you are interested in applying you should contact [Rebecca Gatford.](mailto:rgatfor1@irf.com)