title: MM/MEMS/NANO Live USA 2012
date: 2011-10-12 

Following its debut in Ohio, 2012 will see MM Live USA and new co-locating feature events MEMS Live USA and NANO Live USA move to the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center in Rosemont near Chicago.
<!--break-->
The move to a more accessible location both nationally and internationally will have a positive impact on attendee numbers, allow continued growth and offer the ability to enhance the visitor and exhibitor experience.  
  
In order to maintain the world class nature of this event Rapid News Communications Group is now calling for outstanding abstract submissions for the Technical Briefing Sessions. For 2011, the sessions will focus on the themes of Micro, Nano and MEMS manufacturing methods and to this end the conference organizers would welcome any paper submissions in the broad areas outlined below:  

* Micro Molding  
* Micro Machining   
* Micro and Nano Inspection   
* MEMS Manufacturing   
* NANO Manufacturing   

All submissions must be non-promotional in content and presented by companies or institutions that are utilising and/or researching the technologies for an industrial application. Exhibitors are welcome to submit practical application-based case studies.   

Interested parties are initially requested to submit an abstract of 250 words of their proposed paper on or before November 21st 2011. This should include the working title, all authors/contributors and their affiliations. All submissions will be reviewed to ensure that they meet the necessary and exacting requirements of the approval committee.   

MM, MEMS and NANO Live USA 2012 will be held at the Donald E. Stephens Convention Center in Rosemont near Chicago. 7–8 March 2012, Anyone submitting a presentation must be available to present on either of these two days.   
  
Please submit abstracts to Chris Lawson via email: [chris.l@rapidnews.com](mailto:chris.l@rapidnews.com)