layout: sidebar_page
title: Production Technologies & Equipment for Micro-Manufacturing
date: 2021-03-31

This Summer School will explore the emerging technologies in this field with theoretical and practical sessions by taking direction from the European [Integ-Micro Project](http://www.integ-micro.eu/), an ambitious initiative that has been able to develop five innovative platforms that redesign the state of the art in the industry.
<!--break-->
The sessions will be held by industrial and academic
speakers coming from the major European players in
micro-manufacturing.  
  
**Objectives:**  

The Summer School focuses on the theme of New production technologies and equipment for micromanufacturing.  
The aim is to increase the knowledge and the competencies of the participants on the innovative micro-manufacturing systems with the opportunity to do the tests and  demonstration trials with the new innovative Platforms developed within the European Integ-Micro project.  

**Scientific lessons on:**  

* traditional micro manufacturing techniques;  
* introduction of the new integrated processes technologies;
* demonstration of the innovative Integ-Micro Platforms;  
* micro devices metrology;  
* simulation of the processes;  
* Round Table discussions with industrial micromanufacturing leaders.  

**Who should attend:**  
PhD Students, Post-Doc Researchers, Master Degree in Engineering Students, and other people interested in micro-machining.   
As the program encompasses practical workshops on real
machine tools and laboratory equipment, the maximum
number of participants is limited.  

**Deadline for Registration** is 6th July 2012.   
  
For full information download the flyer and programme below. Any questions - contact the organiser [Monica Lucassino.](mailto:m.lucassino@sssup.it)