title: Conference Registration
date: 2014-11-21 
### Conference Registration Now Open

**REGISTER NOW** [here>>](http://shop.bham.ac.uk/browse/extra_info.asp?compid=1&modid=2&deptid=31&catid=90&prodid=1000)

In order for a paper to be included in the conference programme and appear in the proceedings at least one author *must* register for the conference **before the 1st of February 2015.** The Authors Final Registration deadline is fixed in relation to the production cycle of the proceedings and cannot be changed.

**Invitation letter for visa**   If you require an invitation letter to obtain visa, please send your request to Contact: <a href="mailto:info@4m-icomm-2015.polimi.it">info@4m-icomm-2015.polimi.it</strong></a>
 
At least one of the following criteria must be met to obtain an invitation letter:

- be an author of an accepted paper;

- have paid the registration fee.



**IMPORTANT:** Current 4M and I2M2 Members can register at a special rate, details below. For a list of current members, click [here>>](/members). Students are also eligible for the discount but must provide evidence.  If you are not a member or a student then you are not eligible for the 4M/I2M2 discounts.
 
Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount. 


Please note that the tickets for the *"The Last Supper"* visit are included in the conference fee but limited to the **first 100 registrations.**

................................................................................................
### Conference Fees

(after 1st of February 2015)


Late payers 4M members & students (after 1st Feb 2015)only for 4M2014 members who have paid: **£375**

Late payers I2M2 members (after 1st Feb 2015): **£542**

Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount.
Check the following links for information 4M membership and I2M2 membership.[Members>>](/members)

Late payer non member (after 1st Feb 2015): **£583**


The conference fees (in GBP) include printed proceedings, lunches, refreshments, and conference dinner.

................................................................................................
### One Day Conference Fee and Social Events

One day conference fee (Lunch and CB included): **£167**


Tickets for social events only, this includes Welcome party (30th) + Gala Dinner (31st) and Lab Dinner (1st): **£125**