title: License Agreement 2016
date: 2016-01-25 
### Deadlines

<table class="info" style="width:100%;">
<tr><th>event</th><th>date</th></tr>
<tr class="current"><td>Submission of full paper</td><td>13th of June 2016</td></tr>  
<tr><td>Submission of License Agreement</td><td>20th June 2016</td></tr> 
</table>
<!--break--> 

### License agreement

To publish your paper in the proceedings, the University of Birmingham requests a formal written License agreement from the copyright owners for each article published. To avoid any delay in the publication of your article, please read the terms of the agreement, sign and return the completed form to us at the address below by the specified deadline.

The agreement establishes that the Licensor owns the copyright in the Article and grants the University of Birmingham a non-exclusive, royalty-free license in the Article to use the article for the Permitted Purpose, together with the right to sub-license as detailed below. 

The Permitted Purpose shall mean the University of Birmingham's right to publish the Article on any website controlled by the University of Birmingham, and for paper or electronic copies to be downloaded by third parties upon a free basis. The University of Birmingham shall also have the right to sub-license the Articles to third parties so that the Article may be placed upon websites controlled by such third parties and for paper or electronic copies to be downloaded by other third parties upon a free basis.

The licensor warrants that:  

 * the Licensor owns the copyright in the work created by the  authors.  
 * the Article submitted is original and has been written by the stated authors.  
 * the Article contains no libelous or other unlawful statements and does not contain any materials that violate any personal or proprietary rights of any other person or entity. 
 * the Licensor has obtained written permission from copyright owners for any excerpts from copyrighted works that are included and have credited the sources in  the Article or  the supplemental tables, illustrations or other information submitted. 
### Submission

Please download the 4M/IWMF2016 License Agreement by clicking on the icon below. When you have completed it please scan, post or email it, by the specified deadline, to the Secretariat at the address below. If posting, please also email a confirmation.

Mr Afif Batal<br /> University of Birmingham<br /> Edgbaston<br /> Birmingham<br /> B15 2TT<br /> UK   



<a href=mailto:a.batal@bham.ac.uk>Afif Batal</a>
Telephone: +44(121)414 4143