title: Congress Registration 
date: 2017-03-16 

## Conference Registration Now Open


**REGISTER NOW** [HERE>>](https://shop.bham.ac.uk/conferences-and-events/college-of-engineering-physical-sciences/school-of-mechanical-engineering/wcmnm-2018)

In order for a paper to be included in the conference programme and appear in the proceedings at least one author *must* register for the conference **before the 4th of July 2018.** The Authors Final Registration deadline is fixed in relation to the production cycle of the proceedings and cannot be changed.

**VISA Information**   

Slovenia is part of the Schengen Area and thus please get in contact with your local Embassy of Slovenia if you require a Schengen VISA to enter the country for more information on the application process. 

In case you need an invitation letter to obtain visa, please send your request to Contact: <a href="mailto:bxa361@student.bham.ac.uk">Afif Batal</strong></a>
 
At least one of the following criteria must be met to obtain an invitation letter:

- be an author of an accepted paper;

- have paid the registration fee.



**IMPORTANT:** Current 4M and I2M2 Members can register at a special rate, details below. For a list of current members, click [here>>](/members). Students are also eligible for the discount but must provide evidence.  If you are not a member or a student then you are not eligible for the 4M/I2M2 discounts.
 
Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount. 



................................................................................................




## Conference Fees

**Before 1st of August 2018**

Early Bird for 4M members & Students: **£380**

Early Bird for I2M2 members: **£530**

Early Bird for non-members: **£590**




**After 1st of August 2018**


Late payers for 4M members & students: **£450**

Late payers for I2M2 members: **£580**

Late payers for non-members: **£650**

Those who are not 4M or I2M2 members are not eligible for the 4M or I2M2 discount.
Check the following link for information on 4M membership. [Joining 4M](/join4m.html)


The conference fees (in GBP) include printed proceedings, lunches, refreshments, and conference dinner.

................................................................................................


## One Day Conference Fee

One day conference fee: **£250**


##Gala Dinner for accompanying people</h2>
(19th of September 2018)

Ticket for social event: **£55**